The price of gas has risen sharply in the UK and Europe following an attack on Qatar's Ras Laffan energy complex
In a strongly worded post, Donald Trump has warned Iran against further attacks in Qatar, after "extensive damage" to facilities there
The president also said the US "knew nothing" about Israel's attack on the South Pars gas field in Iran on Wednesday
Iran's South Pars is part of the world's largest natural gas field, with both Qatar and Iran operating facilities in the area - Israel is yet to comment
Meanwhile, three women in the occupied West Bank were killed after shrapnel from an intercepted missile reportedly fell on a beauty salon, the Palestinian Red Crescent says
Edited by Nathan Williams, Jamie Whitehead and Alex Smith, with BBC Persian and teams in Beirut, Doha, Jerusalem, Dubai, and on the Iran–Turkey border
The Ras Laffan complex photographed 2 March
Shell says its natural gas facility within Qatar's Ras
Laffan Industrial City was damaged by fire following Iran's attack on the site.
The firm says the fire was quickly put out, there were no
reported casualties and that the facility is now in a "safe state", the
Reuters news agency reports.
Shell says that when fully operational, the facility has
capacity to process 1.6 billion cubic feet of gas per day, converting it into
140,000 barrels per day of gas-to-liquids.
In the last few minutes, the Israel Defense Forces (IDF)
says it has identified a fresh wave of missiles from Iran.
Defence systems are working to intercept the threat, and
those in affected areas should seek shelter, it says.
The spike in gas prices reflects the market "pricing in
long-lasting disruption", says Matthieu Favas, commodity editor at British
news and current affairs magazine the Economist, who calls the jump “huge”.
Favas tells Radio 4's Today programme that the hope would be
that Qatar's gas facility is "restarted within weeks", but after
several attacks it is "clear that this is unlikely to happen".
However, he says we are still a long way off the peaks we
saw in the aftermath of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.
Favas says prices could rise further when demand - which is
currently fairly low due to the time of year - increases.
"Demand will pick up as we enter summer in countries
that need to use a lot of air conditioning.
"Europe will need to restock, as well as Asia. So they
will be competing for supplies which is very likely to push the price higher.”
Azadeh Moshiri South Asia Correspondent, in Dubai
It's not the first time Iran has targeted countries in the
Gulf who host US military bases. What leaders in the region are taken aback by
is the scale of these attacks. Their anger is reflected in their joint statement by a group of Arab and Islamic nations.
Residential areas and civilian infrastructure have been
damaged, and major energy facilities targeted.
Here in the UAE, officials insist they are capable of
handling the more than 2,000 missiles and drones launched at them since the
start of the war.
But like other Gulf countries, they have warned against the
"threat to global energy security" and the long-term consequences of
this war.
Economies in the Gulf built on tourism, energy and
technology are at risk of seeing their investment, planning and hopes deeply
injured.
One UAE official says he is surprised by the extent of
Iran's willingness to target countries that have played a mediating role.
Dealing with years of sanctions and seen as a major threat
by the West and Israel, Iran was already isolated before this war.
But should the regime survive, it has severely damaged
relations with mediators it has previously counted on.
A fire has broken out at an oil refinery in Kuwait after it
was targeted by a drone strike, according to the Kuwait News Agency (KUNA) and
Iranian state media.
The Kuwait Petroleum Corporation says there were no injuries
at the Mina Al-Ahmadi refinery and the "limited fire" has been
contained, KUNA reports.
Theo Leggett International business correspondent
QatarEnergy's liquefied natural gas (LNG) production facilities in Ras Laffan Industrial City on March 2
The price of gas has risen sharply following the attack on Qatar’s Ras Laffan complex. In early trading it was up more than 25% on wholesale markets in the UK and Europe, before easing back slightly.
The price of gas in Europe is more than double the level seen before the conflict began.
Katie Hope BBC business reporter
UK gas prices this morning have soared over 20% after fresh strikes hit energy infrastructure in the Middle East, including Qatar's main gas facility.
UK gas prices are currently up by 23% to 171p per therm.
The oil price is trading at around 5% higher, at $113 a barrel.
Two waves of Iranian strikes caused "extensive damage" at Qatar's main gas hub, the country's state-run energy firm has said.
Frank Gardner Security correspondent, in Doha
This is exactly the escalation that Gulf Arab nations feared
What began nearly three weeks ago, in response to the
US-Israeli attack on Iran, as Iranian missile attacks aimed primarily at Israel
and US bases in the region has now morphed into strikes on the energy sector.
This is the beating heart of all the Gulf economies. Oil,
gas and petrochemicals are what has transformed Gulf Arab states into rich
countries in the space of a few decades.
Qatar is incensed that despite publicly and privately urging
the US not to attack Iran back in February it has nevertheless seen the crown
jewels of its gas industry at Ras Laffan up the coast from here struck twice
overnight.
The Gulf Arab states' air defences have been highly
effective – several Iranian ballistic missiles were intercepted last night over
Riyadh, just as a ministerial meeting of 12 Muslim-majority nations was taking
place. But clearly Iran's arsenal is not yet empty and some of its weapons have
been able to get through.
Nick Marsh Asia Business Reporter, Singapore
These strikes, in Iran and Qatar, mark one of the most
significant escalations since the conflict began when it comes to energy
infrastructure. Ras Laffan in Qatar is the world's largest liquefied natural
gas plant.
Qatar's state-owned petroleum company says it suffered
"extensive damage" and its closure was enough to send energy prices
shooting up – and markets sliding down.
Just north, in the Iranian part of the Gulf, is the South
Pars gas field – which Donald Trump's threatened to destroy
"entirely" if Iranian attacks on Qatar persisted.
However, President Trump's assurance that Israel wouldn't
attack South Pars, if Iran didn't attack Qatar, points to an awareness of these
sites' huge importance to the world's energy markets.
Azadeh Moshiri South Asia Correspondent, in Dubai
Both Qatar and the UAE had condemned the attack at Iran's
South Pars gas field, warning it threatened "global energy security".
Now the Gulf is bearing the brunt of Iran's fury. In Qatar,
Ras Laffan was hit repeatedly but fires there are now under control. The UAE's
Habshan gas facility and Bab field have been forced to shut down. Authorities
say they were hit by debris from intercepted attacks.
Saudi Arabia too was targeted, saying it thwarted attacks in
the east, and in the capital Riyadh.
In response, Qatar has now expelled two Iranian diplomats,
and Saudi Arabia has warned it is reserving the right to respond militarily.
Iran was already isolated, but now it has severely damaged
its relationships with regional neighbours who were willing to mediate on its
behalf.
Iran threatened retaliatory strikes after the South Pars gas field was hit
Attacks on Middle Eastern nations continued through the
night after Iran threatened to hit US-linked "oil and gas refineries"
in the Gulf following a strike on its South Pars gas field.
Saudi Arabia reported the most attacks
overnight, with seven updates being issued since 22:00 GMT on Wednesday.
The Saudi defence ministry says it shot down 17 drones and
two ballistic missiles across the capital Riyadh and the "eastern
regions" of the country,
Following Iranian retaliatory attacks on its Ras Laffan
energy complex on Wednesday, Qatar announced that it had been
hit again the early hours of Thursday - with damage but no casualties reported.
The United Arab Emirates reported at about
03:30 that air defence systems were intercepting ballistic missiles while
fighter jets were in the skies intercepting drones.
Bahrain issued three warnings throughout the
night, urging residents to seek shelter.
The Kuwaiti military issued a statement a
short while ago that it was confronting "hostile missile and drone
attacks".
The Kuwaiti army is "confronting hostile missile and drone attacks" targeting the country, regional media reports, quoting the army's General Staff.
It said that any explosions residents hear are the result of its air defence systems intercepting incoming projectiles, and the public should remain calm.
Earlier, Kuwait's National Guard said it had shot down several drones in early morning strikes.
Arab nations have issued a joint statement in response to Iran's attacks, following a meeting of foreign affairs ministers in Riyadh on Wednesday.
Representatives included those from Bahrain, Kuwait, Lebanon, Qatar, Saudia Arabia, the UAE and other nations in the region.
In their statement, they condemn Iran's "deliberate
attacks", which they say have targeted residential areas, civilian
infrastructure and diplomatic premises. These cannot be justified "under
any pretext", they say.
They also stress their right to self-defence in accordance
with UN Article 51.
Their statement calls on Iran to "immediately halt its
attacks" and respect international law and "the principles of good neighbourliness",
and to refrain from "measures or threats" aimed at closing the Strait
of Hormuz.
They also condemn Israel's "aggression" against
Lebanon and what they call its "expansionist policy in the region".
Iran has executed three protesters convicted of killing two police officers during the nationwide anti-government protests in January, Reuters reports, citing Iran's judicial news agency Mizan.
The judiciary said they were found guilty of murder and "waging war against God", including acting in favour of Israel and the US.
The anti-government action started as protests against the economy and later grew into nationwide protests against the Iranian government.
According to the US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA) some 6,488 protesters were killed during the protests. The figure does not include the 236 children, 76 non-protesters and 207 military and government forces also killed.
HRANA says is still reviewing some 11,744 cases after the brutal crackdown by Iranian security forces.
Airline Cathay Pacific has cancelled all flights to and from Dubai and Riyadh up until 30 April, which it says is a result of the "developing situation" in the Middle East.
The airline warned that further changes to the flight schedule "may be needed" in the coming days, adding that the safety of passengers was its first priority.
As we reported earlier , aviation has been heavily impacted by the war in Iran, with a number of airlines forced to cancel or delay flights to international travel hubs across the region.
Another vessel has been hit by an "unknown projectile" in the Persian Gulf, according to UK Maritime Trade Operations (UKMTO).
The crew have all been reported safe and well, it says.
The incident took place 4 nautical miles east of Ras Laffan, Qatar, an energy complex which has been targeted by Iranian attacks overnight.
Qatar's Interior Ministry says that all fires at the Ras Laffan energy facility have now been brought under control without any reported injuries.
In a fresh statement on X, the ministry said cooling and securing of the site was ongoing, with hazardous materials being handled by a specialised unit.
As a reminder, the Ras Laffan facility was hit by Iranian rockets early on Thursday morning, in retaliation for an Israeli strike on the South Pars gas site.
Donald Trump has since addressed the attack in a lengthy post to Truth Social , where he declared the retaliation unjust and unfair, warning that any further attacks on "innocent" nations such as Qatar would result in the US blowing up "the entirety" of the South Pars gas field.
Osmond Chia Business reporter
Fuel prices have gone up in Thailand and across Asia
The price of Brent crude shot up by 4% to $112 (£84.34) a barrel in early trade in Asia.
US-traded oil also rose by 3% to $99.27.
The jump comes after Iran's South Pars gas facility - one of the world's largest natural gas fields - was hit.
Iran retaliated by targeting a major liquefied natural gas export facility in Qatar, causing "extensive damage", raising concerns over the global energy supply.
While oil prices are still significantly above their pre-war levels, they are below the peaks reached earlier in the conflict, when crude nearly hit $120 a barrel.
Stock exchanges in Asia fell in early Thursday trade.
South Korea's Kospi was down by 3% while Japan's Nikkei 225 index fell by 2.8%.
Australia's ASX 200 was 1.6% lower.
Read more here.
Before Trump's warning , Iranian state television reported that missiles had struck the Qatari energy complex at Ras Laffan again.
Qatar's state energy company confirmed that gas facilities at its main site were hit by rockets early on Thursday morning, causing fires and more significant damage, but no one was injured.
Osmond Chia Business reporter
As we mentioned earlier, the Pentagon has reportedly asked the White House to approve more than $200bn (£151bn) to fund the war in Iran, according to the Washington Post - but it would still have to go through Congress.
In December, lawmakers approved a record $901bn budget for US defence spending this year - but President Donald Trump has been asking for more.
He argued that the defence funding must reach $1.5tn in 2027 to address what he described as "very troubled and dangerous times".
The bigger budget would help the US build a "dream military" that will keep the country "safe and secure", Trump said in January.
So far, the price of the war has not been officially disclosed. Reports by numerous news agencies suggest that the US spent more than $11bn in the first week of its assault on Iran.
Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.